Documentation for Azure Application Code Assessment Tool (#37523)
dotnet/docs: docs/azure/migration/appcat/app-code-assessment-toolkit.md

---

> title: Azure Application and Code Assessment Toolkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Azure Migrate application and code assessment
```

> description: Learn how to assess .NET applications with Azure AppCAT to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications with Azure Migrate application and code assessment (AppCAT) to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure.
```

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/16/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

# Assess your .NET applications for migration to Azure with Azure AppCAT for .NET

This guide describes how to assess .NET applications with Azure AppCAT (Azure Application and Code Assessment Toolkit) to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure.

## What is Azure AppCAT for .NET?

Azure AppCAT is a tool to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you modernize and replatform large-scale .NET applications through a broad range of transformations, use cases, and code patterns.

Azure AppCAT discovers application technology usage through static code analysis, supports effort estimation, and accelerates code replatforming, helping you move .NET applications to Azure.

> AppCAT bundles a set of tools, engines, and rules to assess and replatform .NET applications to different Azure targets (Azure App Service, Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Container Apps, and Azure Spring Apps) with specific Azure replatforming rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AppCAT bundles a set of tools, engines, and rules to assess and replatform .NET applications to Azure App Service and in the future other Azure targets (such as Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Container Apps, etc. ) can be added.
```

---
title: Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET
description: Learn how to assess .NET applications to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/09/2023
author: codemillmatt
ms.author: masoucou
---

# Assess your .NET applications for migration to Azure

> This guide describes how to assess .NET applications with the application and code assessment for .NET to evaluate their readiness to migrate to Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to use the application and code assessment for .NET to evaluate how ready your .NET applications are for moving to Azure and what changes you need to make for a successful cloud migration.
```

## What is the application and code assessment for .NET?

> The utility is used to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure. It helps you modernize and replatform large-scale .NET applications through a broad range of transformations, use cases, and code patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The utility is used to assess .NET source code to identify replatforming and migration opportunities to Azure.
```

> It discovers application technology usage through static code analysis, supports effort estimation, and accelerates code replatforming, helping you move .NET applications to Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It discovers application technology usage through static code analysis, supports effort estimation, and accelerates code replatforming by giving you recommendations on how to overcome any potential issues and make your code cloud-compatible.
```

> Application and code assessment for .NET bundles a set of tools, engines, and rules to assess and replatform .NET applications to Azure App Service and in the future other Azure targets (such as Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure Container Apps, etc.) can be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application and code assessment for .NET bundles a set of tools, engines, and rules to assess and replatform .NET applications to various Azure targets such as Azure App Service, Azure Kubernetes Service and Azure Container Apps.
```

### When should I use the application and code assessment?

The utility is designed to help organizations modernize their .NET applications in a way that reduces costs and enables faster innovation. It uses advanced analysis techniques to understand the structure and dependencies of any .NET application, and provides guidance on how to refactor and migrate the applications to Azure.

With it you can:

> - **Discover technology usage:** Quickly see which technologies an application uses. Discovery is useful if you have legacy applications with not much documentation and want to know which technologies they use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Assess the code to a specific target:** Assess an application for a specific Azure target. Check the effort and the modifications you have to do in order to replatform your applications to Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assess the code compatibility with Azure:** get notified about every part of your code that might not work when you move your application to Azure.

- **Get recommendations on refactoring your code:** receive guidance and effort estimates on how to update your code to make it Azure-compatible, what verifications you should make to ensure your applications will work properly, and how to improve your applications performance, scalability, security, etc.
```

### Supported languages

Application and code assessment for .NET can analyze projects written in the following languages:

- C#
- Visual Basic

### Supported project types

It analyzes your code in the following project types:

- ASP.NET
- Class libraries

### Supported Azure targets

> It contains rules for helping you migrate your applications so you can deploy to and use the following Azure services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently application identifies potential issues for migration to Azure App Service, AKS, and Azure Container Apps. In the future the tool might have an ability to set the target explicitly and filter the exact issues and recommendations for each target separately.
```

Remove the rest of the section

> - Azure App Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> More services may be added in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Next steps

> ### Install the Visual Studio extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install the Visual Studio extension or the CLI tool
```

> For information on how to install the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET extension for Visual Studio, see [installation instructions](./install.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to install the Azure Migrate application and code assessment for .NET extension for Visual Studio or CLi tool, see [installation instructions](./install.md).
```

> ### Use with Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use with Visual Studio or in CLI
```

> ### Use with Visual Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For information on how to use and interpret results, see [Use the application and code assessment with Visual Studio](visual-studio.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to use the tool in Visual Studio, see [Use the application and code assessment with Visual Studio](visual-studio.md). For CLI experience, see [Use the application and code assessment in CLI](dotnet-cli.md). And for interpreting results, see [Interpret-results](interpret-results.md).
```

> For information on how to use and interpret results, see [Use the application and code assessment with Visual Studio](visual-studio.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
